10.102.17.61
SSH:22
user28



bash-bourne again shell


ksh-kone shell
csh-c shell


ctrl+B-to move backward by one character
ctrl+F-to move forward by one character
ESC+B-to move one word backward
ESC+F-to move one word forward 
ctrl+A-to move to first character in the line
ctrl+E-to move to the end of the line
ctrl+K-to delete from current position to end of the line



special files c/b--character or block files

crw-rw-rw- 1 root root      1,   5 Feb 17 03:44 zero


brw-rw---- 1 root disk      1,   0 Feb 17 03:44 ram0


mainly these are for input/output files


cat - used for contents of the files


> indicates redirection of output
< indicates redirection of input

ls -lR---------listing subdirectories



ls --help
man ls
info ls


which command  gives the location of the command



while /bin/true; do
    something_in_the_background
done & 









how to display files and directories in reverse order			ls -r


sort ls command output based on file extensions				ls -X

list subdirectories recursively						ls -R	

use ls to display file name and file sizes in the output		ls -s-h

use ls to indicate the type of file in the output

how to change the output format using ls		ls -format

								

use ls to hide a particular file			ls --hide=filename



-l long format, displaying Unix file types, permissions, number of hard links, owner, group, size, last-modified date and filename
-f do not sort. Useful for directories containing large numbers of files.
-F appends a character revealing the nature of a file, for example, * for an executable, or / for a directory. Regular files have no suffix.
-a lists all files in the given directory, including those whose names start with "." (which are hidden files in Unix). By default, these files are excluded from the list.
-R recursively lists subdirectories. The command ls -R / would therefore list all files.
-d shows information about a symbolic link or directory, rather than about the link's target or listing the contents of a directory.
-t sort the list of files by modification time.
-h print sizes in human readable format. (e.g., 1K, 234M, 2G, etc.) This option is not part of the POSIX standard, although implemented in several systems, e.g., GNU coreutils in 1997,[4] FreeBSD 4.5 in 2002,[5] and Solaris 9 in 2002.[6]


to make copy command interactive use -i


cp -r -i recursively and interactively if file already exists


copy file to directory with same name
			with different name


owner--u
group--g
others--o
all --a

usergroup -- to create a group
useradd -- to add a user

esc :q!  to come out of vi editor

read-list the files in directory
write - create file  in directory , rename files in directory , delete files in the directory
execute- enter into directory, access the files and subdirectories
sticky bit - to restrict the permissions on files / directories for deletion  this is used
		to allow only owner to delete the files as such

rm -rf directoryname
-r---recursively
-f--forcefully
-i-- interacvtively



Training Started in Karapakkam-CHENNAI on LINUX and our work location is SIPCOT- CHENNAI. ID card assigned here is different from 
 regular. After training we have to go SIPCOT.

